So let's talk about a couple other
things a component must return markup,
which will always be the result
of React.createElement.
So this is about the simplest
react app possible,
this is the hello world
of React applications.
So next thing, let's get this
out of a script tag on a page,
so I'm gonna cut this, and
I'm gonna make a new file
here inside of source and
I'm gonna call it App.js.
And I'm gonna save that.
And then back here my index and
literally this is unmodified.
Here in App.js and
then here I'm gonna put in
this script tag source equals dot App.js.
Okay, that should be slightly
less offensive code now.
So back here in App.js,
let's make another component,
this is a pet adoption app, so
we're gonna make a pet component.
Be another function it's going to return
the results of, React.CreateElement.
And it's gonna be a div,
it's gonna have nothing there and
then we're gonna give it
an array of components to return.
So React.createElement,
we'll give it an h1,
empty object, and
we're gonna describe one pet individually.
So we're gonna do my dog, which is Luna
but you can put whatever you want there.
And I'm gonna just copy and paste this
cuz it's relatively the same thing.
And I'm gonna make this in h2, and
I'm like that in h2, Luna is a dog and
her breed, she is a Havanese So
now that we have this pet component
again we've created the rubber stamp but
we haven't actually used the rubber stamp,
right so we have to go use it somewhere
I mean, this is just a function
at the end of the day, right?
You have to use the function
doesn't really do anything.
So and then you'll notice here,
instead of just a result of
one React.createElement call,
we've given it an array of
that which is totally fine.
React knows how to handle that, right?
Just so you know, this is just
trivia that you don't need to know,
you actually can just give it,
Like multiple
parameters here and
it'll also know what to do with that,
it's variablearity if you want to use
the computer science term for it.
But what react will do for
you under the hood it does put an array so
I'm just letting you know
that it's in an array.
Again, trivia, you can just go ahead and
let that go out the other
ear doesn't matter.
Okay, so now I have this.
And I'm gonna make this
an array here as well cuz we're
gonna use a bunch of pet components.
Okay, and
let's just put three pets in here, so
I'm gonna say react dot create element,
and pet.
So again, I made this pet rubber stamp and
I just went stamped it
three times inside of app.
And then app is going to be
rendered out here to the root.
So one of my favorite exercises when I
write code like this is I asked myself,
when I go back to the browser,
what am I expecting to see?
Because it forces me to think through
logically the code that I've written.
Just start from the end and
work backwards.
We have app, right which has been
rendered out to the root, so
we have our app component this is
gonna be rendered how many times?
It's once, we're gonna see an h1 that
has an adopt me here at the top.
It's gonna be inside of a div, right and
then we have used the pet
component three times.
So how many times is it
gonna say Luna on my page?
>> Three
>> Three,
dog three times having these three times.
Total I'm gonna have four h ones
right one of these three of these and
I'm going to have what six h twos and
inside of and I'll have what four divs.
Okay, so now if I refresh the page here
you can see I have Luna three times,
dog three times,
matches up with my expectations, yes?
Yeah, so you can see components
are made up of components,
are made up of components.
If you will, right now, just so
you know if you look here in your console,
you will certainly see
you have this warning.
That's fine,
we will take care of it that's expected
right now, just ignore it for the moment.
So obviously not everyone's pet is my pet,
right,
it's not very useful that we have
a pet that represents just Luna.
It'd be cool if we had a pet component
that could be any pet, right?
A little bit more flexibility than just
outputting Luna dog Havanese three times.
It'd be cool if we could
have three different pets,
as you might imagine,
this is this is possible, right.
So React is a concept
called one-way data flow,
which basically means that I can
pass data from app down to pet.
I cannot pass data from pet up to app for
the most part.
Let's just say 99% of the time you don't,
this is called one way data flow.
It was, I'm gonna say popularized
by React, but it's basically
been adopted now by every major framework,
because it was such a good idea.
Why is this such a good idea?
I'm gonna pass information down to pet.
If I have an issue inside of app,
I know for a fact that pet
didn't cause it because pet
can't mess with its parents.
App can mess with it's children, but
the pet cannot mess with its parents.
So basically it allows it makes debugging
react apps much more straightforward.
It also makes the data flow very explicit,
if pet has weird data being passed into
it you know it came from app, right?
Cuz that you can see the data flow
from parent to child from parent to
child from parent to child.
This is one of the biggest benefits of
React in my opinion is it makes this flow
of data very explicit,
very easy to read, very easy to follow.
My favorite story about React as I showed
you that tweet of me launching React at
Reddit for the first time.
I had a colleague Python developer,
awesome developer but
very much not a front end developer.
I launched that React code and then
immediately went on a cruise, immediately,
like launched it, left the next day.
Great idea I was an awesome coworker,
hire me please.
It broke as all codes want to do,
my coworker was able to look at
the code and he is like, I get this.
I can read this, I can understand
where the data is going, and
he found it very quickly fixed it and
relaunched.
And I only owed him a few beers instead of
like an entire case of beers afterwards,
right so it ended up being okay.
But that is due to the fact of
how explicit React is, you're,
gonna get a little annoyed at how explicit
it is because it requires a decent amount
of typing.
So that part it's worth it, though like
the juice here is worth the squeeze.
Yeah, because you're gonna have to
say every time like this goes here.
That was, like one of the really
cool benefits of like old angular
is it was very implicit, right?
You were able to say, okay, this is bound
to this and it made writing that code
really nice, but it made maintaining
that code an absolute nightmare.
They fix that modern Angular
doesn't do that anymore,
I'm talking about really old Angular,
that like two way data binding.
If you've done that before you now have
this forlorn look on your face and
you're like having like flashbacks of
terrible times in your coding career.
If you don't know what that is,
just consider yourself very lucky.
Anyway, okay, so
I've explained to you that
we wanna flow some data from
our app parent into pet.
Let's see how you do that, so
what I want is I wanna get some
sort of like object in here.
Let's just call it props and
I wanna use these props here,
these properties that are gonna be
passed in from the parent here.
So instead of having Luna here
I'm gonna have props dot name,
instead of having dog here I'm
gonna have props dot animal.
Instead of having Havanese here I'm gonna
have props dot breed Okay,
so now it's expecting
something from its parent that it needs to
be passed into so that it can render it.
So it shows you here like here I
can give it like an ID of whatever.
Same thing applies here for
properties passed into a component,
I can just say all right,
here's properties I wanna give to pet.
I wanna give it an animal of
We'll just use Luna again here,
animal is gonna be dog,
though, the name is gonna be Luna and
the breed is gonna be Havanese.
And let's just copy and
paste that a few times here.
This one instead of being a dog,
let's make this was my childhood bird, so
this is gonna be a bird.
And the bird same was Pepper I was a very
creative child that we had a black and
white bird which I named Pepper I
thought that was very clever it was not,
it was not clever.
Pepper was a cocktail.
And this was my neighbor's cat,
which I just has the best name ever,
the name of the cat was Doink.
And there was some mixed breed, we called
the cat Doink because it was mostly
blind so we just run into walls all
the time, it's very charming cat.
So now what do I expect to see?
Can be really similar, same amount
of divs and H ones and H twos but
now I'm gonna have a more
flexible structure here, right?
And it's gonna have a different name for
each one, it's gonna have a different
breed and different animal.
So if I go back over here and refresh
the page, you can see here I have Luna,
I have Pepper and I have Doink.
And again, one way data flow I
have information flowing from
App into pet right
through these properties.
But how would data,
like how would pet ever mess with app?
It can't, right?
It has no concept of where or
how it's being rendered,
pet is just simply a function.
No pun intended, actually is that
it's just a function of its state,
right it gets props passed into it and
it renders itself based on
whatever the state I did, right?
And you can do like right now
I'm just doing strings but
I could do is dark mode, right.
And I could have this one be true and
this one be false and
all that kind of stuff and
go back and forth that way, right?
You can pass any sort of state in there,
you can pass objects you can pass URLs
like whatever you need to do there.
And we're gonna do all sorts
of wild stuff with state but
that is how you pass information
down from parents to children.